[MUSIC]
>> Jafar Husain: Now let's try and
implement concatMap,
I think it's already up here.
But the reason why we're implementing
concatMap is that it's such a common
pattern to go map, map, map and then
follow up with a concatAll, concatAll,
etc., and flatten out again.
But because you're often doing a map
followed by a concatAll, well,
why don't we just save
ourselves some typing and
fuse those into one
function called concatMap?
And so, as you can see here,
it's relatively straightforward,
concatMap takes a function.
Now the one catch is that it expects
that function to return an array.
Because we're gonna take some flat array,
presumably, and
then map over it to apply a function
to each item, creating a new array,
with the resulting array being
a two-dimensional array.
So in other words,
it has to be two dimensional so
that we can apply concatAll to it.
So-
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah, absolutely.
So concatMap takes
a projection function that's
expected to return an array when given
a value, and then it flattens it out.
So here we have Spanish,
French and English words, right.
>> Jafar Husain: 0, 1 and 2,
a bunch of words for them.
We can take all those and
call concatMap, right?
And look up the return.
In this case any of these methods,
excuse me,
one of any of these items from Spanish,
French, English words, and
that'll create a two-dimensional array and
will flatten it all out.
So it's just a map followed by
a concatAll, nothing to it,
just a convenience function.
So whenever you see concatMap you
gotta realize we're using a map, or
deepening one level of nesting, and
then we're flattening it out again.
So it's convenient to do those
things at the same time.
So let's use concatMap to
retrieve the ID title and
the 150x200 box URL for every video.
So I think we solved this
problem earlier with map.
Sorry, let me just make sure it's
not showing all the answers here and
restart the lab.
>> Jafar Husain: Which
exercise were we on?
>> Speaker 3: 14.
>> Jafar Husain: 14?
Thanks very much.
>> Jafar Husain: I think.
>> Jafar Husain: Here we go.
>> Jafar Husain: Okay, so we're on 14.
Let's try this out.
So our previous solution just used map and
concatAll.
So we're gonna map over each movieList.
And each movieList has a collection of
videos, which we'll map over as well.
>> Jafar Husain: Each video
has a boxart collection.
Now, remember, instead of creating
the object right now, we've gotta wait and
keep mapping until every object we need to
create our result is bound to a variable.
And so we're gonna map, now, over boxes.
Actually, technically
we're gonna filter first.
We're gonna look for the boxart with
a width of 150 and a height of 200.
I'm gonna bring that to the next line,
cuz I'm gonna follow that up with a map.
And I'm gonna map over that, and I'm
gonna grab just the URL of that boxart.
Well, actually, technically now that
I've got boxart bound to a variable,
video is bound to a variable, I have
everything I need to create my result.
So I'm just gonna create the final result,
which is ID title.
>> Jafar Husain: Let me
pull up the video ID.
>> Jafar Husain: And
video title, and the box art,
which in this case is actually the URL,
right?
So this is what the result
supposed to look like.
So instead of just the boxart, or instead
of whole boxart, I'm just gonna pull out
the URL property, and
I'm gonna finish up the JSON object here.
And then finish up my map, and
then finish up my other map.
>> Jafar Husain: And now all I'm going
to apply concatAll because I wanna
flatten out.
>> Jafar Husain: Two levels,
I'm gonna apply two concatAlls.
>> Jafar Husain: So
I'm gonna see, perfect.
>> Jafar Husain: So that was
the solution to the previous example.
Now concatMap is really simple.
Any place you see a map followed by
a concatAll you can replace that.
We should line up here.
>> Jafar Husain: Yes,
you can replace that with a concatMap,
which is just gonna need its function.
So now I'm gonna delete one concatAll,
I'm gonna go here.
So how do I know that this
concatAll follows this map?
Because of good formatting practice.
I can identify it with my eye, right?
This is why it's so important that we
learn how to format large expressions.
It's not that large expressions
are too complicated.
Just like any regular program, if you
got rid of all the tabs in your program
it would be totally unreadable, right?
It's not that it's too complicated
to have loops in your program.
It's just that you need
tabs to visually guide your
eye about what the structure
of the program is.
And so I'm gonna take map here,
replace that with concatMap.
And now we have a shorter
version of the answer.
I still get that same
missing argument list,
that might have to do with the fact
I'm using arrow functions here.
I'm not sure, but I'll show the answer and
I'll prove to you it's the same
answer with the long functions.
>> Jafar Husain: Okay, it's just the same
thing with functions written the long way.
>> Jafar Husain: I'm gonna slightly change
the formatting here so that lines up, but
that's the way it's supposed to look.